JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
arrived in Paris today for
talks with French President
Emmanuel Macron, with the aim
of strengthening the alliance
between the two countries.
But the visit was at least
partly overshadowed by questions
that continues to dog President
Trump, whether his presidential
campaign coordinated with
the Russian government.
John Yang has our report.
JOHN YANG: Even amid
the splendor of Paris,
President Trump could
not escape the firestorm
over his son's meeting
with a Russian lawyer.
At a news conference with French
President Emmanuel Macron,
Mr. Trump defended Donald
Trump Jr. as a wonderful young
man who did nothing wrong.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: I think, from
a practical standpoint, most
people would have
taken that meeting.
It's called opposition
research, or even research
into your opponent.
I have had many people -- I
have only been in politics
for two years, but I have had
many people call up, oh, gee, we
have information on this factor
or this person or, frankly,
Hillary.
That's very standard
in politics.
JOHN YANG: The president said
the Russian lawyer, Natalia
Veselnitskaya, had visited
Congress and he suggested her
U.S. visa had been approved by
Obama Attorney General Loretta
Lynch, not the State Department.
Late today, Lynch said she
had nothing to do with it.
On Air Force One on the way to
Paris, Mr. Trump told reporters
that the Russia investigation
was only helping him.
"It's making Trump stronger,
because my people and
the people that support
me, who are incredible
people, those people are angry
because they feel it's being
unfair and a witch-hunt."
At the news conference, a French
reporter asked the president
about his often-repeated
campaign anecdote about a friend
who had told Mr. Trump that
the threat of Islamic terrorism
had ruined Paris.
DONALD TRUMP: I see
him like a month ago.
How was Paris this summer?
What?
I don't go to Paris.
Are you kidding me?
It's no longer Paris.
JOHN YANG: Today, he turned
it around to flatter his host.
DONALD TRUMP: You know what?
It's going to be just
fine, because you have
a great president.
You have somebody who's going
to run this country right.
So, I really have a feeling that
you're going have a very, very
peaceful and beautiful Paris.
And I'm coming back.
You better do a
good job, please.
Otherwise, you're going
to make me look very bad.
JOHN YANG: The two leaders
said they discussed Syria and
the fight against terrorism.
Mr. Macron said Mr. Trump's
decision to withdraw
from the Paris climate
accord wouldn't affect
their relationship.
Bloomberg News White House
correspondent Toluse Olorunnipa
is covering the trip.
TOLUSE OLORUNNIPA, Bloomberg
News: They see the world in
very different ways, but they
have come to realize that
they can benefit from having a
positive relationship with one
another, and that's what
we saw on display today.
JOHN YANG: Indeed, the
body language today
was a marked difference
from their first awkward
encounter in May, and
was capped tonight with
dinner at the Eiffel Tower.
After watching Bastille Day
celebrations in Paris tomorrow,
Mr. Trump heads back to the
United States, and more
repercussions from his
son's Russia meeting.
Senate Judiciary Committee
Chairman Chuck Grassley said
he wants Donald Trump Jr. to
testify in open session
as soon as next week.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm John Yang.